(heroic music)
It's 1753,
and a brash 21-year-old George Washington
gets his first military assignment
in the wilderness of Indian country.
(heroic music)
I recall when I was
a young officer in the Virginia Regiment,
I was commissioned and appointed
by the Governor of Virginia to visit and deliver
a letter to the commandant of the French forces on the Ohio,
and set out on the intended journey the same day.
(heroic music)
He's full of himself.
He's just been made a lieutenant colonel.
He's leading Virginia troops.
He's the commander.
He's going out with an expedition to fight
the French forces out that way.
He's probably pretty proud of himself.
He doesn't know what he doesn't know.
He's not had military schooling, and he may have thought
he was a lot more competent than he really was.
(ominous music)
We have, with nature's assistance,
made a good entrenchment,
and by clearing the bushes out of these meadows
prepared a charming field for an encounter.
(ominous music)
But the encounter is far from charming.
Washington has the fort built on low ground,
where it can be easily attacked.
(solemn music)
"About 9 o'clock on the 3rd of July,
the enemy advanced with shouts and dismal Indian yells
to our entrenchments.
They then, from every literal rise and tree,
stump, stone, and bush kept up a constant
scalding fire upon us."
(solemn music)
In just a few short hours,
Washington is soundly defeated.
Out of 305 men, 31 were killed and 70 wounded.
(solemn music)
He deals with the French commander,
and they let him march back with his weapons
if he promises to go back to Virginia.
He has no choice.
So he goes back a defeated officer in his first campaign.
(solemn music)
With every failure he learned,
and learned from that failure to do better next time,
and with a determination.
He was persistent.
He never gave up.
He never quit, even in the midst of failure.
(heroic music)